#summary Configuration of tile caches

= Introduction =

If you embed MapView into your application, a default caching strategy will be used. This page explains what you may do if you need more control about caching, for instance in tight memory situations.


= Details =

The default cache structure of MapView without customization currently consists of a memory cache of capacity 32, followed by a disk cache, followed by a sqlite-powered database cache.

To set up your own cache configuration, all you need to do is create a property list file named {{{routeme.plist}}} in your project and add it to the target you are building. The property list should be a dictionary with at least the key {{{caches}}}. The contents of {{{caches}}} is an array of dictionaries, each setting up one layer of your cache. 

An entry in the {{{caches}}}-array must contain the key {{{type}}}. Valid values for the cache type are {{{memory-cache}}}, {{{disk-cache}}} and {{{db-cache}}}. Further keys may be used to set parameters for the corresponding cache. 

The available parameters as of now are:

 * {{{capacity}}} (Number) - maximum number of tiles in the cache. For the database cache, 0 means unlimited capacity.
 * {{{strategy}}} (String) - [db-cache only] purging strategy. Possible values are LRU (least recently used) and FIFO.
 * {{{useCachesDirectory}}} (Boolean) - [db-cache only] should the database be places in the caches directory. Currently defunct.
 * {{{minimalPurge}}} (Number) - [db-cache only] smallest number of tiles to be tossed during a purge operation

As an example, this is a {{{routeme.plist}}} file that sets up the default cache structure, but with a minimal purge count of 10:

{{{
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE plist PUBLIC "-//Apple//DTD PLIST 1.0//EN" "http://www.apple.com/DTDs/PropertyList-1.0.dtd">
<plist version="1.0">
<dict>
	<key>caches</key>
	<array>
		<dict>
			<key>type</key>
			<string>memory-cache</string>
			<key>capacity</key>
			<integer>16</integer>
		</dict>
		<dict>
			<key>type</key>
			<string>db-cache</string>
			<key>capacity</key>
			<integer>1000</integer>
			<key>strategy</key>
			<string>LRU</string>
			<key>useCachesDirectory</key>
			<false/>
			<key>minimalPurge</key>
			<integer>10</integer>
		</dict>
	</array>
</dict>
</plist>
}}}

== A word of caution ==

With this mechanism, it is easily possible to set up cache structures that degrade MapView's performance considerably. If you are unsure, just stick to the defaults and do not set up a {{{routeme.plist}}}.