#summary How-to guide on making an application containing a map

= Introduction =

This guide takes you step-by-step through making an iphone application with an embedded map.


== Setting up your directories ==

First, we're going to make a directory to hold your project as well as the route-me mapview and proj4.

Open terminal and grab mapview and proj4 from SVN:

{{{
$ mkdir projects

$ cd projects/

$ svn checkout http://route-me.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/Proj4
......
Checked out revision n.

$ svn checkout http://route-me.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/MapView
......
Checked out revision n.
}}}

== Adding the route-me project reference to your own project ==

Open up your own project, and click on the root element of the "Group & Files" sidebar (there should be a blue compass icon next to it).
Then in the main Xcode menu, choose "Project"->"Add to Project..." and then select the route-me MapView.xcodeproj file from where the route-me project is installed on the file system. Do not copy items. Make the reference type "Relative to Project".
As a result, the MapView.xcodeproj (with the same blue icon than the root element of your project) should appear just under the root element of your project.
If you expand the MapView.xcodeproj, you will see 2 files: MapView.app and libMapView.a

Note that this method is described in the "Xcode Project Management Guide", p.37 Referencing Other Projects.

== Configuring build dependencies ==

Now we need to configure your application to build with MapView. There are a lot of small steps here; and if you miss one your project won't build / run.

First, click the MapView.xcodeproj reference we just added to our project. There should be two elements inside it: libMapView.a and MapView.app. In the files list click the little checkbox next to libMapView.a. This will add libMapView.a to the project targets.

In the Groups & Files sidebar, open Targets and double-click on your application's target.

===General tab===
In the general tab, we will add MapView as a direct dependency.

Assuming you correctly added libMapView.a to the target, it should currently be listed as a linked library.

Click the direct dependency '+' and add MapView.xcodeproj->MapView. This causes MapView to be compiled when your project is compiled (if necessary).

We also need to add a couple other linked libraries. Click the linked libraries '+' and add CoreGraphics, CoreLocation (obrand: that may not be needed, I will confirm), QuartzCore and libsqlite3.dylib

===Build Tab===
Find "Header Search Paths" under "Search Paths". Double-click on the 'Header Search Paths' text and add the path to the MapView directory contained in the route-me project located on your file system. (Note that if there are any spaces in the path, enclose the entire entry with "". 
If route-me is placed next to your project on the file system, you would have the following in the path: "../route-me/trunk/MapView".

Check the 'Recursive' box and click Ok.

=== Properties tab===
Identifier will currently be: com.yourcompany.${PRODUCT_NAME:identifier}
If you have a code signing identity, change yourcompany appropriately so you can deploy & test on the iphone.

----
Build the project. If all goes to plan, it should compile ~143 files (Proj4), then ~26 files (MapView) then ~6 files (your application). Successive compilations will be much faster.

You will probably get a few warnings from Proj4 and something about code signing identities in MapView. These warnings are safe to ignore.

== Project Resources ==

Copy the marker png files from MapView's Resources folder into the assets folder of your parent project otherwise markers won't have images to plot.

== Adding a map for non Interface Builder based application ==

This is the most trivial way to integrate route-me in a project and does not require any extra special steps other than the traditional ones:

In your Controller header file (for example: MyViewController), import MapView.h:

{{{
#import "HerdMapView.h"

@interface MyViewController : UIViewController {
    RMMapView *mapView;
    // Your own code....
}

@property (nonatomic, retain) RMMapView *mapView;;
}}}

In your Controller implementation file (.m), write the following in the loadView method:

{{{
- (void)loadView
{
	[self setMapView:[[[RMMapView alloc]initWithFrame:CGRectMake(0.0, 0.0, desiredwidth, desiredheight)]autorelease]];
	
	[herdMapView setBackgroundColor:[UIColor blackColor]];
	self.view = herdMapView;
        // Your own code
}
}}}
Save and run.

== Adding a map for Interface Builder based application ==

Open the Resources group in XCode. Open MyAppViewController.xib (it will have a slightly different name depending on what your project is called).

Click on the view. In the attributes window, first tab check View->Interaction->"Multiple Touch". In the Identity tab, change the class identity to RMMapView.

Theoretically, it should work now but it won't. If you try to run it you will get this runtime error:
{{{2008-09-30 14:15:15.229 MyMappingApp[40631:20b] Unknown class RMMapView in Interface Builder file.}}}

XCode has stripped the RMMapView symbol from the final executable (its not referenced anywhere - gcc considers it dead code. Of course, gcc doesn't notice interface builder's reference)

The work-around to this is to add a reference RMMapView somewhere (anywhere).

In XCode, open MyMappingAppViewController.m. (It will be in the Classes group).

Near the top of the file add:
{{{
#import "RMMapView.h"
}}}

You will also find the commented out method "viewDidLoad". Uncomment this method and add this code:

{{{
// Implement viewDidLoad to do additional setup after loading the view.
- (void)viewDidLoad {
    [super viewDidLoad];
    [RMMapView class];
}
}}}

In this method we could also set where the view is facing, or set any other properties of the view. (The controller's 'view' property will be set to our RMMapView*.)

Build and run and you are done.